=pod

=head1 NAME

B<pwmake> - simple tool for generating random relatively easily pronounceable
passwords

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<pwmake> I<< <entropy-bits> >>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<pwmake> is a simple configurable tool for generating random and relatively
easily pronounceable passwords. The tool allows you to specify the number of
entropy bits that are used to generate the password.

The entropy is pulled from F</dev/urandom>.

The minimum number of bits is I<56> which is usable for passwords on
systems/services where brute force attacks are of very limited rate of tries.
The I<64> bits should be adequate for applications where the attacker
does not have direct access to the password hash file. For situations where
the attacker might obtain the direct access to the password hash or the
password is used as an encryption key I<80> to I<128> bits should be
used depending on your level of paranoia.

Any I<entropy-bits> value outside of the I<56> to I<256> bits range will be
adjusted to fit within the allowed range.

=head1 OPTIONS

The first and only argument is the number of bits of entropy used to generate
the password.

=head1 FILES

F</etc/security/pwquality.conf> - The configuration file for the libpwquality
library which can be changed by the user.

F</usr/lib/security/pwquality.conf> - The default configuration file if
F</etc/security/pwquality.conf> is not available.

=head1 RETURN CODES

B<pwmake> returns 0 on success, non zero on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pwscore(1)>, L<pam_pwquality(8)>

=head1 AUTHORS

Tomas Mraz <tmraz@redhat.com>
