=pod

=head1 NAME

pwquality.conf - configuration for the libpwquality library

=head1 SYNOPSIS

F</etc/security/pwquality.conf>

F</etc/security/pwquality.conf.d/*.conf>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<pwquality.conf> provides a way to configure the default password
quality requirements for the system passwords. Additionally it allows 
to define different password strength policies based on user's login 
name, primary group name or groups of which user belong, using PERL 
regular expressions.This file is read by the libpwquality library 
and utilities that use this library for checking and generating passwords.

The file has a very simple Windows like init format: A section starts 
with its name encapsulated between two brackets: [name] then a set of 
I<name = value>  with possible comments starting with C<#> character. 
The whitespace at the beginning of line, end of line, and around the 
C<=> sign is ignored.

Each section defines a user's password policy, the policy named I<Default> 
is used for user not managed by any other policy. If a user matches the criteria of 
more than one password policy, then the last matched one will be used.

The libpwquality library also first reads all F<*.conf> files from the
F</etc/security/pwquality.conf.d> directory in ASCII sorted order. The
values of the same settings are overridden in the order the files are parsed.

=head1 OPTIONS

The possible options in the file are:

=over 4

=item B<loginname>

PERL regular expression used against the user's login name to known if this profile must be use.

=item B<groupname>

PERL regular expression used against the user's primary group name to known if this profile must be use.

=item B<memberof>

PERL regular expression used against the groups name of which user belong, to known if this profile must be use 

=item B<difok>

Number of characters in the new password that must not be present in the
old password. (default 1)

The special value of 0 disables all checks of similarity of the new password
with the old password except the new password being exactly the same as
the old one.

=item B<minlen>

Minimum acceptable size for the new password (plus one if credits are not
disabled which is the default). (See L<pam_pwquality(8)>.)
Cannot be set to lower value than 6. (default 8)

=item B<dcredit>

The maximum credit for having digits in the new password. If less than 0
it is the minimum number of digits in the new password. (default 0)

=item B<ucredit>

The maximum credit for having uppercase characters in the new password.
If less than 0 it is the minimum number of uppercase characters in the new
password. (default 0)

=item B<lcredit>

The maximum credit for having lowercase characters in the new password.
If less than 0 it is the minimum number of lowercase characters in the new
password. (default 0)

=item B<ocredit>

The maximum credit for having other characters in the new password.
If less than 0 it is the minimum number of other characters in the new
password. (default 0)

=item B<minclass>

The minimum number of required classes of characters for the new
password (digits, uppercase, lowercase, others). (default 0)

=item B<maxrepeat>

The maximum number of allowed same consecutive characters in the new password.
The check is disabled if the value is 0. (default 0)

=item B<maxsequence>

The maximum length of monotonic character sequences in the new password.
Examples of such sequence are '12345' or 'fedcb'. Note
that most such passwords will not pass the simplicity check unless
the sequence is only a minor part of the password.
The check is disabled if the value is 0. (default 0) 

=item B<maxclassrepeat>

The maximum number of allowed consecutive characters of the same class in the
new password.
The check is disabled if the value is 0. (default 0)

=item B<gecoscheck>

If nonzero, check whether the words longer than 3 characters from the I<GECOS>
field of the user's L<passwd(5)> entry are contained in the new password.
The check is disabled if the value is 0. (default 0)

=item B<dictcheck>

If nonzero, check whether the password (with possible modifications)
matches a word in a dictionary. Currently the dictionary check is performed
using the cracklib library. (default 1)

=item B<usercheck=>I<N>

If nonzero, check whether the password (with possible modifications)
contains the user name in some form. It is not performed for user names shorter
than 3 characters. (default 1)

=item B<enforcing=>I<N>

If nonzero, reject the password if it fails the checks, otherwise
only print the warning. This setting applies only to the pam_pwquality module
and possibly other applications that explicitly change their behavior
based on it. It does not affect L<pwmake(1)> and L<pwscore(1)>. (default 1)

=item B<badwords>

Space separated list of words that must not be contained in the password. These
are additional words to the cracklib dictionary check. This setting can be
also used by applications to emulate the gecos check for user accounts that are
not created yet.

=item B<dictpath>

Path to the cracklib dictionaries. Default is to use the cracklib default.

=item B<retry=>I<N>

Prompt user at most I<N> times before returning with error. The default is
I<1>.

=item B<enforce_for_root>

The module will return error on failed check even if the user changing the
password is root. This option is off by default which means that just
the message about the failed check is printed but root can change
the password anyway. Note that root is not asked for an old password
so the checks that compare the old and new password are not performed.

=item B<local_users_only>

The module will not test the password quality for users that are not present
in the F</etc/passwd> file. The module still asks for the password so
the following modules in the stack can use the B<use_authtok> option.
This option is off by default.

=item B<trivialsubst>

If nonzero, perform the trivial character substitutions, defined in parameters, 
like for example: l1|! means 'l' substituted by '1', '|' or '!'.

=item B<leetspeakcheck>

If nonzero, check whether the password contains some 1337/leet speaks pattern.
If yes, performs substitutions in the password string before checking it against 
the cracklib dictionaries and password quality.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pwscore(1)>, L<pwmake(1)>, L<pam_pwquality(8)>

=head1 AUTHORS

Tomas Mraz <tmraz@redhat.com>
